
# "5Q Method"
## 2026-01-31

**TLDR**: Good communication between cross-functional teams is essential for the proper commissioning of new equipment. It is important to find the right wording when asking questions and asking the same question 5 times, is a useful method in finding the right wording. Be persistent, emphasize starting a discussion, and identify actionable steps. Below is interaction demonstrating this method

1st Question: How do I connect a 3rd party device to a machine PLC?
* That’s not possible, 3rd parties are not allowed to have access to our internal devices

2nd Question: What is the safest way to exchange information between these 2 devices?
* The 3rd party device connected to the PLC should only be able to read the data from the PLC, not write any changes. 

3rd Question: If I just want the device to have the same settings as those entered on the machine, how could that be achieved?
* Controls needs the list of the data tags the device will be reading and the vendor needs to program the device to read the machine data and react accordingly

4th Question: How will the device physically connect to the machine?
* We just need to run an ethernet cable between the 2

5th Question: This is intended for planning out exact next steps and assigning responsibility

### Blog

<p> As customers are looking for the fastest delivery, absolute quality, and matchless service, manufacturing has to look into every opportunity for an advantage. The newest machines, advanced sensors, and countless communication devices are constantly being added to plant operations in the pursuit of having the latest technology and modernizing relatively ancient processes. It is vital to the commissioning process that there is seamless communication between operations, management, IT, vendors, and controls. Oftentimes, the failure to execute the commissioning process effectively results in exciting new devices not meeting expectations and failing at the task they were assigned. If someone does not push the implementation all the way through and ensures that all of the minute details or nuances have been addressed, then the new devices will end up sitting there, unplugged, and nowhere near meeting their potential.
<p> An important part of effective communication is finding a common language, a way to portray the same idea to different audiences. Different people will evaluate the same message with different criteria. They will see different risks, challenges, results, and requirements. I want to reference a recent project I worked on and how the same message was interpreted by the different parties involved. Our focus was to add a device to a machine that would detect defects and trigger an alarm. This device had to have the same settings as the machine during any new product startup. In the beginning of the commissioning process, the operator was tasked with entering the same settings on the machine’s HMI and the device. If the operator forgot to enter the new settings or made a mistake on the device, then the device would not be able to correctly detect defects and would produce excess false positives. The vendor suggested connecting the device to the machine PLC so that the device's settings would update automatically any time the operator made changes to the machine settings. This would eliminate the operator having to do double work entering the same settings twice, allow the device to know exactly what product is being run, and prevent false positives. Management and Operations loved this however IT/Controls saw risks and demanding requirements. Connecting a 3rd party device to a machine PLC is a network risk and allows 3rd party vendors to potentially make changes to the machines PLC. This was a major concern and had caused the project to come to a screeching halt. We could have just ended the project right there, we just needed to trust that the operators would always change the settings on the device correctly and we could avoid connecting the device to the machine. However, in reality, this was not within the process capability. The device sat there, alarm unplugged, and the settings never updated. We had to have some kind of connection between the machine and device so that the device would always have the same settings and perform as intended. I knew establishing this connection between the machine and device wasn’t impossible but not quite exactly how it would look like. This is where it was vital to better communicate the need and move the project forward.
<p>	When dealing with a subject I am not extremely well versed in, I found asking the same question 5 times can be extremely helpful. Oftentimes, the issue isn’t in the ask but how I word the ask. The first time asking the question, it is very easy to get dismissed. “I don’t understand your question”, “That is not possible”, or “You have to go talk to this person”. Because of my lack of knowledge on the subject, my first version of the question usually won’t make any sense. This is when it is important to try to frame the question in a way that leads to a discussion. My second iteration of the question will emphasize the ultimate purpose of my goal and frame the question in a way where the subject matter expert explains how they would achieve the same goal in their version of a perfect world. My 3 and 4th iteration of the question typically dives more into the details of what the solution looks like in reality. Finally, my last question would establish clear next steps on how to move forward. The entire goal of asking the same question 5 times is I want to find out exactly what language makes sense for the subject matter expert, sell them on the idea, and plan out practical next steps.
<p>	I found in the case of my project that my initial ask from IT and controls was incorrect. My question started off as “How do I connect the new device to the machine's PLC?” and ended up being “How can we let the new device just read the settings entered on the machine so that it can update just itself and reflect the machines settings?” This was a much better question because it now eliminated the assumption that the 3rd party device needed the ability to write changes to the PLC and reduced any security risks by keeping it in a closed system. From this point, we were able to establish clear next steps and move the project forward.
<p> Although it seems simple, asking the correct questions and the wording of said questions really can be what makes or breaks a project, especially in cross functional projects. If you are not able to conduct effective communication between the different teams, it is very easy for a project to stop dead in its tracks. This is where the role of an engineer becomes crucial. You may not know everything about each individual team but you have to be able to pick up on the language and effectively translate between the different teams. Each team is expecting different wording and will always interpret the same message differently. It may seem excessive or redundant but asking the same question 5 times and adjusting accordingly has shown to be an effective method for me in finding the correct wording and making sure everyone is on the same page. 


